* Test Planning
  file:
  {https://mailmissouri-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/personal/jcmkr_umsystem_edu/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B3F6D3E10-CF39-483F-AD3B-1F8CF84335E7%7D&file=Homework%204%20-%20Test%20Planning.docx&fromShare=true&action=default&mobileredirect=true}

  text:
  {https://umsystem.instructure.com/courses/285701/assignments/2867306}

** assignment

   This is a group assignment.
   As you develop your system, methods for verifying elements of the system performance should be proposed in the earliest concepts and fleshed out during the development phase.
   This assignment is to lay out some plans for the test and evaluation (evaluation may be inspection, demo, analysis, or test) of the system (and/or its elements) that you are developing. Testing is normally highlighted because it is the most extensive (and therefore costly) in preparation and performance checks, requiring such items as calibrated equipment or special facilities, and very detailed steps with pass/fail values for every parameter measured at each step. Testing is also the most trusted verification method.
   Requirements that will not be verified by test are just as important as those that do require test.  Many requirements are either impossible or unsafe to verify by test, so analysis (or simulation) is frequently used, as is build-up of a verification case from component tests and analysis of how those tests provide assurance at the system level.  Some requirements are too simple to be worth verifying by test, so demo or inspection are used.  Verification planning is the term that includes all methods to verify all requirements.
   But this homework is test planning, so your plan segment should provide an outline of how you will verify some requirements in the areas on your system that would be tested.   Provide at least three examples of a detailed test description for some original or derived requirement; these need not be at system level. The examples should include information relating to planning for the test, including required common and special resources/equipment/facilities, timing, conditions, personnel, coordination, licenses, authorizations, training, etc., related to the test and any other information necessary for someone to prepare to conduct and/or oversee the test. 
   This does not mean a full test procedure with actual steps and data recording, but the description of what is needed up to that point, ready to begin the test procedure.  Typically major headings and bullets with short explanations.
   The verification plans should be about 3-4 single spaced pages. This report can be in either .doc, .docx format.

** prompt

*** context

    Introduction:

    This document is part of the Configuration Baseline of the GPS Spoof Detection system, and it discourses on its Test Planning, based on the User Needs, Operational Requirements and Testability Analysis that were agreed upon the Preliminary Design Review.  

    User Needs:
    The system must warn the pilot when a GPS spoof attack is detected in a timely manner. This will allow the users to perform countermeasure actions. The system must be electrically supplied by the aircraft powering systems. The design and prototype must be provided by January 2028 within a budget of120 million dollars (USD) provided by the Electronic Systems Division of Hanscom Air Force Base. 

    1. The GPS spoof detection system shall identify GPS spoofing as it occurs to the aircraft GPS tracking systems while in operation.  
    2. The GPS spoof detection system shall have a red light that allows users to identify if they are a target of spoofing while in operation.  
    3. The GPS spoof detection system shall store a record of all GPS spoof attacks while in operation.  
    4. The GPS spoof detection system shall be able to have data transferred off platform while not in operation.   
    5. The GPS spoof detection system shall communicate with aircraft GPS systems while in operation. 
    6. The GPS spoof detection system shall interface with current aircraft electrical power systems while in operation.  
    7. The GPS spoof detection system shall perform a Built-in Test to verify operational integrity every 1 minute while in operation.  
    8. The GPS spoof detection system shall display a visual alert within 3 seconds after catching a possible GPS spoof attack while in operation.  
    9. The GPS spoof detection system shall emit a sound alert within 3 seconds after catching a possible GPS spoof attack while in operation.  
    10. The GPS spoof detection system shall have a button for the user to cancel the alert while in operation. 
    11. The GPS spoof detection system shall be designed and prototyped by January 2028 within a budget of 120 million dollars. 
    12. The GPS spoof detection system shall use standardized manufacturing processes to ensure repeatable, high-quality production, achieving a minimum 95% first-pass yield rate during assembly 
    13. The GPS spoof detection system shall be designed for integration using existing aircraft mounting and power interfaces, ensuring installation time does not exceed 4 hours per unit. 
    14. The Built-in Test of the GPS Spoof Detection system shall return its operational integrity assessment within 10 seconds after its beginning. 
    15. The GPS Spoof Detection System shall have an orange light to warn the pilot in case of a failure return from the Built-in Test execution. 
    16. The GPS Spoof Detection System shall keep the red light switched off in case of a failure return from the Built-in Test execution. 
    17. The GPS spoof detection system shall have Weekly Maintenance for health checks, Monthly Preventative Maintenance and Depot Overhaul Maintenance every 5 years. 
    18. The cost of maintaining the GPS spoof detection system would be about 1 million dollars. 
    19. The GPS spoof detection system shall be designed and prototyped by January 2028 within a budget of 120 million dollars. 
    20. The project shall receive a regulatory agreement with the FAA that allows GPS spoofing signal generation in airspace prior to the beginning of the system verification and validation test campaign. 


    Testability Analysis:

    GPS spoofing is an illegal practice. Therefore, in order to generate GPS spoofing signals to perform the proposed system verification and validation testing campaign, it will be necessary to establish an agreement with the FAA to guarantee an exemption. This regulatory constraint is on the critical path of the system development life cycle and must be resolved at the beginning of the test campaign, for no further delays. Given that constraint, a process requirement could be stated as follows: 

    (NEW) The company shall have a regulatory agreement with the FAA that allows GPS spoofing signal generation in airspace prior to the beginning of the system verification and validation test campaign. 

    Assuming that this agreement with FAA is well established and the test campaign can be performed, the test campaign should include the following cases: 
    - Functional test 
    - Environmental test 
    - Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) test 
    - Mechanical shock test 
    - Mechanical vibration test 
    - Accelerated life test 

    The above set of tests cover most of the cases that the proposed system will be exposed to, in such a way that the test campaign will provide the following statements about the system: 

    1. The GPS Spoofing Detection system can detect spoofing from sources with Signal-to-Noise Ratio up to TBD; 
    2. The GPS Spoofing Detection system can detect spoofing under TBD weather conditions; 
    3. The GPS Spoofing Detection system can work as intended when exposed to an electromagnetic radiation with magnitude of TBD kV at TBD kHz; 
    4. The GPS Spoofing Detection system can work as intended to mechanical shock of up to TBD G; 
    5. The GPS Spoofing Detection system can work as intended to mechanical vibrations of up to TBD G at TBD Hz; 
    6. The GPS Spoofing Detection system is able to work as intended for TBD years. 


Test Plan #1 - Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) test   

This document contains a test plan for conducting the GPS Spoofing Detection System Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) test. EMC testing is to include the GPS Spoofing Detection System between various installed aircraft systems and critical equipment. 

Test Objective 

GPS Spoofing Detection System Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) testing will be conducted to ensure that airplane equipment and/or systems performing or contributing to functions whose failures are not adversely affected by conducted and/or radiated electromagnetic emissions originating from the GPS Spoofing Detection System. 

Equipment Under Test 

The Equipment Under Test (EUT) will consist of the integrated pylon module mounted on a test aircraft with all the systems installed, i.e., primary propulsion, avionics and cabin systems, to validate non-interference between airplane systems. The system will be examined by means of antenna scans and source vs. receptor testing. 

Functional Test 

The GPS Spoofing Detection System shall have passed all functional tests associated with ground-test level. 

Acceptance Criteria 

The EMC test will be considered accepted if the EUT presents no unacceptable system response between source and receptor devices for each test procedure. Acceptance criteria for each test section or step is the absence of all the following EMI conditions: 

Source systems unacceptably interfering with the test aircraft receptor systems that could result in catastrophic, hazardous, or major failure conditions or source systems unacceptably interfering with non-essential aircraft systems which: 

Degrade system operation, 

Produce excessive noise in communication equipment, or 

Introduce improper system operation such as faults, unexpected changes in operating modes or displayed parameters, or un-commanded control surface movement. 

Test Procedure 

The EMC test will be performed in two procedural components: 1) antenna scanning and 2) source vs. receptor testing. 

Antenna Scanning 

 

Antenna scanning involves a high-speed RF receiver connected to airplane antennas through an antenna switch and band pass filter, powered by a battery for independent operation. This system detects both broadband and narrowband emissions and is controlled by a test instrumentation unit that manages RF spectrum measurements. The scanning process takes about six minutes per set and is conducted multiple times with the aircraft either powered or unpowered.  

Initially, the aircraft operates on APU or engine power to establish a baseline of RF spectrum energy. After capturing this baseline, the aircraft is powered down, and the scanning is repeated to identify RF emissions that are absent when unpowered. Additional powered/unpowered cycles help differentiate emissions from the airplane versus external sources. 

Source vs. Receptor Testing 

 

Source vs. receptor testing is used to “exercise” all source aircraft systems while monitoring receptor airplane systems having the potential for catastrophic, hazardous, or major failure conditions. Preparation for this test includes: 1) An identified list of receptors; 2) An identified list of sources; 3) A defined set of worst case modes of operation for receptors; and 4) A defined set of worst case modes of operation for sources. 

Often, a test matrix is utilized to better relate the planned interaction between RF sources and receptors. The matrix is beneficial in helping to define source and receptor interactions as well for denoting when operation of propulsion units is required. 

Test Documentation 

Detailed planning, configuration control, test conduct, and data recording will be defined within the “GPS Spoofing Detection System Electromagnetic Compatibility Test Procedure”. A “GPS Spoofing Detection System Electromagnetic Compatibility Test Report” report will be prepared after certification testing is complete. 

Test Instrumentation 

The tests require the use of aircraft outputs and displays for monitoring the equipment under test. For special purpose monitoring, analysis, and troubleshooting, Table 1 lists the recommended test equipment to be used, although equivalent devices may be substituted subject to approval of the test director. 

 
    Nomenclature | Part Number | Quantity 
    /------- | ------- | ------
    Avionics Test Set | AVTS 001 | 1 
    VHF Test Set | VHFTS 001 | 1 
    HF Test Set  | HFTS 001 | 1 
    400 Hz Power Supply | PS 001 | 1 
    High Speed Digital Receiver | HSDR 001 | 1 



    Test Plan #2 - Spoof Detection Response Time Test

 
*** prompt

    in this assignment, propose a 3rd test plan in the format of the test #1


*** response


Test Plan #3 - Hardware-in-the-Loop Integration Test
Introduction
This document outlines the test plan for conducting the GPS Spoofing Detection System Hardware-in-the-Loop (HIL) Integration Test. The HIL test will verify the system’s integration and performance within a simulated aircraft environment, interfacing with emulated GPS, electrical power, and avionics systems under controlled conditions, including simulated GPS spoofing attacks.
Test Objective
The HIL Integration Test will validate that the GPS Spoofing Detection System:

Communicates seamlessly with simulated aircraft GPS systems (User Need 5).
Operates reliably using simulated aircraft electrical power interfaces (User Need 6).
Supports installation compatibility with existing aircraft mounting and power interfaces (User Need 13).
Detects GPS spoofing and activates visual (red light) and audible alerts within 3 seconds (User Needs 8, 9).
Allows user alert cancellation via a button (User Need 10).
Performs Built-in Tests (BIT) every 1 minute, returning results within 10 seconds, with appropriate visual indicators (orange light for BIT failure, red light off) (User Needs 7, 14, 15, 16).
Stores spoofing event data for off-platform transfer (User Needs 3, 4).
Operates without adverse effects on simulated aircraft systems.

Equipment Under Test
The Equipment Under Test (EUT) will consist of the GPS Spoofing Detection System, including:

GPS spoof detection module.
Visual indicators (red and orange lights).
Audible alarm system.
Alert cancellation button.
Data storage unit.
Interfaces for GPS and electrical power systems.

The EUT will be integrated into a Hardware-in-the-Loop test rig simulating an aircraft’s avionics suite, GPS system, and 400 Hz electrical power supply. The HIL environment will include real-time simulation of aircraft systems and GPS signals, with the capability to generate FAA-approved GPS spoofing signals.
Functional Test
The EUT must have passed bench-level functional tests to confirm basic operation and interface compatibility before integration into the HIL test rig.
Acceptance Criteria
The HIL Integration Test will be considered successful if the EUT meets the following criteria:

Maintains continuous communication with the simulated aircraft GPS system without data loss or interruptions.
Operates reliably on the simulated 400 Hz power supply, with no power-related faults or degradation.
Demonstrates compatibility with simulated aircraft mounting and power interfaces, with setup time not exceeding 4 hours.
Detects GPS spoofing signals (Signal-to-Noise Ratio up to TBD) and activates red light and audible alerts within 3 seconds.
Allows user cancellation of alerts, silencing the audible alarm and deactivating the red light.
Performs BIT every 1 minute, completing each test within 10 seconds, activating the orange light and deactivating the red light during BIT failure.
Logs all spoofing events (timestamps, signal characteristics) and supports data extraction post-test.
Exhibits no adverse effects (e.g., faults, mode changes) on simulated aircraft systems, including avionics and GPS.

Test Procedure
The HIL Integration Test will be conducted in a controlled laboratory environment using a HIL test rig, with FAA-approved GPS spoofing signal generation. The test consists of two procedural components: 1) HIL Setup and Interface Verification, and 2) Operational Integration Testing.
HIL Setup and Interface Verification

Setup: Install the EUT into the HIL test rig, connecting it to simulated GPS and 400 Hz power interfaces. Record setup time to ensure it does not exceed 4 hours.
Power Interface Test: Activate the simulated 400 Hz power supply and monitor the EUT for stable operation, checking for voltage stability and absence of power faults.
GPS Interface Test: Establish communication between the EUT and the simulated GPS system. Verify data exchange accuracy and continuity using HIL instrumentation.
Baseline BIT: Execute an initial BIT to confirm EUT integrity before operational testing.

Operational Integration Testing

Spoofing Detection and Alerts: Generate simulated GPS spoofing signals (Signal-to-Noise Ratio up to TBD) via the HIL rig. Monitor the EUT’s response, verifying that the red light and audible alarm activate within 3 seconds.
Alert Cancellation: Trigger a spoofing event and use the alert cancellation button to silence the audible alarm and deactivate the red light. Confirm proper system reset.
BIT Performance: Operate the EUT for at least 10 minutes to allow multiple BIT cycles (every 1 minute). Simulate a system fault to trigger BIT failure, verifying orange light activation and red light deactivation within 10 seconds.
Data Storage and Transfer: Generate multiple spoofing events and verify that data is logged in the EUT’s storage unit. Extract data post-test to confirm accuracy and completeness.
System Interaction: Simulate concurrent operation of aircraft avionics, GPS, and other systems within the HIL environment. Monitor for any interference, faults, or performance degradation in the EUT or simulated systems.

Test Documentation
Detailed test procedures, configurations, and data recording will be documented in the “GPS Spoofing Detection System HIL Integration Test Procedure.” A “GPS Spoofing Detection System HIL Integration Test Report” will be prepared post-test, summarizing results and compliance with acceptance criteria.
Test Instrumentation
The HIL test rig will provide simulated aircraft outputs and displays for monitoring, supplemented by specialized equipment. Table 1 lists the recommended test equipment, with equivalent devices subject to test director approval.



Nomenclature
Part Number
Quantity



HIL Test Rig
HIL 001
1


GPS Signal Simulator
GSS 001
1


400 Hz Power Supply Emulator
PSE 001
1


Data Logger
DL 001
1


High-Speed Digital Receiver
HSDR 001
1


Regulatory Considerations
The test requires FAA approval for generating GPS spoofing signals, as outlined in the Testability Analysis (User Need 20). Although conducted in a controlled HIL environment, this approval must be secured to ensure compliance with regulatory constraints.
