

1. The risk statement (if a trigger occurs, then the bad thing will happen form)
If integration with existing aircraft GPS and electrical systems takes longer than anticipated, then the project timeline will be delayed, pushing back delivery.

2. Whether the risk is primarily cost, schedule, technical
Type: Schedule

3. The likelihood and severity of the risk, with an explanation of how you decided that
The likelihood of the risk is 5. Aircraft systems vary widely in design and standards, and retrofitting a new system may reveal compatibility issues late in development.
The severity is 3. The delays could push milestones, but the project could still deliver with adjusted timelines, assuming no hard deadline.

4. How the risk will be managed (handled)
This will be managed by early identification and resolution of integration challenges. This involves upfront preparation and early integration testing.

5. The mitigation plan summary for the risk, if applicable
The Mitigation Plan Summary is to conduct early compatibility testing with a representative sample of aircraft GPS and electrical systems and allocate buffer time in the schedule for integration troubleshooting.


TPM

TPM 4: Power Consumption
Description: 
This TPM measures the power draw (in watts) of the system when integrated with aircraft electrical systems.

Measurement and Monitoring:
Measured using a power meter during lab tests, starting with breadboard components and scaling to prototype integration with aircraft power buses.
Monitored via a trend chart against a planned max (e.g., 50W, based on typical avionics budgets), with a tolerance band (e.g., ±20W early, ±5W at delivery). A Kiviat chart snapshot shows current status vs. other TPMs.


Trace:
This TPM can be traced back to the Requirement #6: 
- “The GPS spoof detection system shall interface with current aircraft electrical power systems while in operation.”

Also, it can be traced back to the KPP #4:
- Power Consumption – “The system must be efficient and work within the aircraft’s power constraints, with a backup option to maintain functionality during electrical failures.”


Differences from Plan: Exceeding the planned limit (e.g., 60W in prototype) flags a problem—potentially requiring redesign or power optimization—due to aircraft power constraints.

Evolution Over Time: Early estimates come from component specs, brassboard tests actual draw, and prototype confirms under operational conditions. Measurement refines as integration matures.

Associated Requirement: “The GPS spoof detection system shall interface with current aircraft electrical power systems while in operation.”
Rationale: Power compatibility is a practical constraint for integration, and tracking it ensures the system fits within existing aircraft limits.






requirements:

1. The GPS spoof detection system shall identify GPS spoofing as it occurs to the aircraft GPS tracking systems while in operation.
2. The GPS spoof detection system shall have a red light that allows users to identify if they are a target of spoofing while in operation.
3. The GPS spoof detection system shall store a record of all GPS spoof attacks while in operation.
4. The GPS spoof detection system shall be able to have data transferred off platform while not in operation. 
5. The GPS spoof detection system shall communicate with aircraft GPS systems while in operation.
6. The GPS spoof detection system shall interface with current aircraft electrical power systems while in operation.
7. The GPS spoof detection system shall have dual redundancy while in operation.
8. The system shall display a visual alert within 3 seconds after catching a possible GPS spoof attack while in operation.
9. The GPS spoof detection system shall emit a sound alert within 3 seconds after catching a possible GPS spoof attack while in operation.
10. The GPS spoof detection system shall have a button for the user to cancel the alert while in operation.

kpp's:

- Spoof Detection Accuracy (KPP-1) - the primary function of the system is to detect spoofing attacks. High accuracy is critical to avoid false positives and false negatives, ensuring mission success and safety.
- Response Time (KPP-2) - Rapid alerting is essential for pilots to take immediate countermeasures. A maximum of 3 seconds is set as the threshold, with an objective of 1 second for optimal performance.
- Reliability and Redundancy (KPP-3) - Continuous operation is necessary, requiring redundancy to ensure functionality even in the event of partial system failure.
- Power Consumption (KPP-4) - The system must be efficient and work within the aircraft’s power constraints, with a backup option to maintain functionality during electrical failures.
- User Interface Clarity (KPP-5) - Pilots must be able to interpret alerts quickly and effectively. A simple, clear interface reduces cognitive load and improves reaction time.
